Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structures are used in computing to make it easy to locate and retrieve information.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. 1- Insertion
   2- Deletion
   3- Searching
   4- Sorting
   5- Merging
   6- Traversing

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
- Compiler Design.
- Operating System.
- Database Management System
- Statistical analysis package
- Numerical Analysis.
- Graphics.
- Artificial Intelligence

what is an Array?
A. An array is a non primitive variable  Data Structure containing a number of a same data type elements.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A. ArrayList can contain primitive and non primitive data type but array contain only non primitive data type.

what is LinkedList?
A. Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are defined in nodes with address and pointers.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A. Array is a collection of elements of similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects
 known as a nodes where node consists of two parts, data and address.

what is queue?
A. A queue is a linear data structure in wich elements are added to one end and removed from the other end.

what is stack?
A. Stack is linear dats structure in wich the element inserted last is the element to be deleted first.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A. is the last in, first out method assumes that the last unite to arrive in inventory or more recent is sold first.

what is the order of complexity?

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?

what is tree in data structure?
A. Is a chain of nodes connect through next pointers.

what is graph in data structure?
A. Is a common data structure that consists of a finite of nodes.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A. HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values.
Hashtabe dosn't allow any null key or value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A. RDBMS = Array
   Network data model = Graph
   Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A. It implements the map interface. it stores the data in the pair of key and value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. Is thrown if a program tries to access an array index that is negative, greater than or equal to the length.
It occurs when we are trying to access any item of an array at an index.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A. An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
   A linked list is a collection of objects.

What is DFS and BFS?
A. DFS is stands for Depth first search.
   BFS is stands for Breadth first search.

What is Recursion?
A. Is the process in wish a function calls itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A. Linear sequentially connected and each element is traversable through a single run
   Non linear hierarchically connected and are present at various levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


